---
layout: post
title:  "StarDust"
date:   2016-12-22 21:00
categories: 
---


So I've been trying to fill out the "Big Picture" for a context into which DA-Hol can be placed.
And in the process, inventing some other pieces of the whole which the Big Picture is intended to address.

And I do really mean the BIG picture, as large a scope as I think I can say something meaningful about.

So here is the structure which I envisage, broken down by repository, all to be hosted on GitHub, and mostly to be just a wiki, without even a definite idea about software, for a good while.
I consider painting this big picture, with sketches in each of the constituent repositories, as a very important preliminary to serious development work, though I don't exclude some prototyping while it is in progress, and I expect it all to take a good while.

I now have in mind a set of five parts, and I'm going to sketch them all here and replicate the sketch in the README and wiki of the top-level repo.

## StarDust

The top repo is to be called "StarDust", which has a nice cosmic feel to it.
The role of this is to plot the thinking as far into the future, and as far out into the cosmos, as I feel I have something to say (which is a long way), and to say how the other four pieces/projects/repos contribute to this and fit together.

There are then three repos into which main substance of the work are divided, roughly along simplistic lines corresponding to divisions articulated in the philosophy of David Hume, in his two "forks".
The first (or is it the second?) fork is the distinction between "ought" and "is", or between descriptive and evaluative propositions.

## DA-Value

DA-Value covers the evaluative propositions, and generally the kind of thing which Aristotle would have classified as _practical science_.
Ethics, Politics, Economics.
How to decide, articulate and effect our morals and preferences, individually and collectively.

Descriptive propositions are then further divided along the lines of Hume's other fork:

## DA-Hol

DA-Hol is concerned with what Hume referred to as "relations between ideas", but which I will more often describe as _a priori_, (broadly)_logical_, or _analytic_ propositions, i.e. the kinds of truth which can be demonstrated to very high levels of confidence in formal deductive systems such as HOL.

And the third part:

## SensAct

which concerns Hume's "matter of fact", not so clear a notion, by which we understand objective empirical truths.
The interpretation of this domain of contingent rather than necessary truth which is progressed in this sub-project reflects, in ways which Hume did not anticipate, Hume's skepticism about what can properly be inferred from the sensory evidence upon which they are based.
In this part of the project we consider how mathematical models of the physical world can be constructed using the infrastructure provided by **DA-Hol**, how these are related to the sense data, coming in the future primarily from IOT online sensors, and how reasoning using these models about how to achieve the aims articulated or derived from **DA-Value** leads through activators, which may be IOT devices, to the implementation of desired transformations in the material universe.

The final component, out on a limb, is:

## CreativeDAO

which is a place to consider how the organisation of these projects can be placed on a formal collaborative basis if there is sufficient interest from collaborators to warrant that step.
Making this into a separate repo reflects my belief that nothing here need be particular to this set of projects, so ideally it would be a matter of chosing the most appropriate smart consitutional contract and supporting crypto-ledger technology from the very many now being developed.

But I suspect that at the least some adaptation, if not a fresh start, will be needed.

A principal feature which I seek here is a clean separation between the tradable tokens of stake, which will confer only economic benefits, and peer-determined status among creative contributors, which confers influence over direction, aka _control_.

